# Sterling Connection

The `sterling-connection` package is a
[Redux middleware](https://redux.js.org/understanding/history-and-design/middleware)
that maintains a WebSocket connection between Sterling and a data provider such
as Alloy or Forge.

## Introduction

The WebSocket connection between `sterling-connection` and a data provider is
used as a two-way street. Data providers can provide data for Sterling to
display, and Sterling can tell the provider when the user has interacted with
the interface in some way.

### Data in Sterling

There are numerous types of data that can be communicated between Sterling and a
provider, but the most important is certainly the [`Datum`](./types#datum). In
essence, a `Datum` is a piece of data that can be displayed in any of Sterling's
views (of which there are three: Graph, Table, and Script). Historically,
Sterling began as a visualizer for [Alloy](http://alloytools.org/), and so
individual Alloy instances in the form of XML strings were the data flowing
through Sterling. To remove this strict dependency on Alloy XML, the `Datum`
type adds a layer of abstraction so that Sterling can support more data formats.
As of December 2021 the Alloy XML format is still the only one supported, but
the data must now be sent to Sterling using a `Datum` object instead of the raw
XML string.

All other data flowing between Sterling and a provider are typically related to
some sort of user interaction, whether it be the buttons that are available to a
user when looking at some datum or a REPL expression that the user wants to have
evaluated.

### Communication Expectations

A WebSocket connection is different from an HTTP connection in that it does not
use the request-response paradigm. Rather, a line of communication is opened up
between the server (the data provider) and the client (Sterling) and the two are
free to send messages to each other as they wish. Think of it like text
messaging: you might send a text to a friend to tell them you had fun hiking
yesterday, or you might ask them to send you that really amazing photo they took
while you were hiking yesterday. Sometimes you expect a response, and sometimes
you don't. Either way, you send the message and then go about your day, and your
friend can choose if and when to respond. On the other hand, maybe your friend
already knows that you want that picture, and so they send it to you without you
asking.

The same is true for Sterling and a data provider. Sometimes Sterling will ask
the provider for data and expect a response, and sometimes you'll want to send
data to Sterling without it even asking for it. When Sterling _does_ expect a
response from a provider, we'll let you know in the documentation, and if and
when the provider responds is up to the developer of the provider. Either way,
Sterling will continue to go about its day.

## Communication Protocol

All messages between a data provider and the `sterling-connection` middleware
are in JSON format, and are structured as follows:

```json
{
  "type": "message-type",
  "version": 1
  "payload": ...
}
```

The `type` field is a string that identifies the shape of the `payload` field,
and the `version` field is an integer identifying the version of the
communication protocol. The `payload` field contains any data associated with
the message type. In some cases there is no data associated with a message, and
so the `payload` field can be omitted.

There are exactly two exceptions to this rule. The [`ping`](./send#ping) and
[`pong`](./receive#pong) messages, which are used to keep the WebSocket
connection alive, are simply the strings `"ping"` and `"pong"`.

## Message Specifications

The message specifications are categorized in these docs based on the sender and
receiver of the message:

- [Sterling -> Provider](./send) - Messages sent from Sterling to the data
  provider.
- [Provider -> Sterling](./receive) - Messages sent from the data provider to
  Sterling.
