pages/sterling-connection/types.mdx, before:

# Types

The TypeScript types listed on this page describe the shape of some common
elements used in messages sent between the `sterling-connection` middleware and
data providers.

## `Button`

The `Button` type describes a button displayed in the Sterling interface.

#### Fields

- `id` - A unique identifier.
- `text` - The string to display in the button.

#### Types

```typescript
{
  id: string;
  text: string;
}
```

## `Datum`

The `Datum` type describes an individual datum displayed in Sterling, along with
some metadata that describes a few choice UI components that are associated with
that datum.

#### Fields

- `id` - A unique identifier.
- `data` - The raw data, in a supported [format](./formats).
- (optional) `actions` - An array of buttons that will be displayed with this
  datum. When one of these buttons is clicked, an [`action`](./send#action)
  message will be sent to the provider with the button's `id` as payload. No
  actions are provided by default.
- (optional) `evaluator` - A boolean indicating whether REPL functionality is
  available for this datum. Defaults to false.

#### Types

```typescript
{
  id: string;
  data: string;
  actions?: Button[];
  evaluator?: boolean;
}
```

## `DatumMeta`

This type is identical to the [`Datum`](#datum) type with the exception of the
`data` field, which is omitted.

#### Types

```typescript
Omit<Datum, 'data'>;
```

Commit message:

Update sterling-connection specs and docs

pages/sterling-connection/types.mdx, after:

import OptionalBadge from "/nextra-theme-sterling/optional-badge";

# Types

The TypeScript types listed on this page describe the shape of some common
elements used in messages sent between the `sterling-connection` middleware and
data providers.

## `Button`

The `Button` type describes a button displayed in the Sterling interface.

#### Fields

- `text` - The text to display in the button.
- `onClick` - A string that will be sent to the provider when the button is
  clicked.

#### Types

```typescript
{
  text: string;
  onClick: string;
}
```

## `Datum`

The `Datum` type describes an individual datum displayed in Sterling, along with
some metadata that describes a few choice UI components that are associated with
that datum.

#### Fields

- `id` - A unique identifier.
- `format` - The [format](./formats) of the data.
- `data` - The raw data, in the format specified by the `format` field.
- `buttons` - <OptionalBadge/> An array of buttons that will be displayed with
  this datum. When one of these buttons is clicked, an [`action`](./send#action)
  message will be sent to the provider with the button's `action` as payload. No
  buttons are provided by default.
- `evaluator` - <OptionalBadge/> A boolean indicating whether REPL functionality
  is available for this datum. Defaults to false.

#### Types

```typescript
{
  id: string;
  format: string;
  data: string;
  buttons?: Button[];
  evaluator?: boolean;
}
```

## `DatumMeta`

This type is identical to the [`Datum`](#datum) type with the exception of the
`format` and `data` fields, which are omitted.

#### Fields

See [`Datum`](#datum).

#### Types

```typescript
Omit<Datum, 'data' | 'format'>;
```
